2024-IUS-US-GPU.md, before:

# Short-course US-GPU @ IUS-2024 / UFFC-JS-2024 (22 SEP 2024)

This is a readme for the "GPU-based Ultrasound Signal Processing" short-course to be presented @ the [IUS-2024](https://2024.ieee-uffc-js.org/tutorials-and-short-courses)

We are excited to have you join us for the upcoming IUS-2024 GPU short course (BTW: this year it is a join conference called UFFC-JS-2024). 
Before we begin, we wanted to provide you with some essential information and recommendations to ensure a smooth and enriching learning experience.

**1. Pre-course Preparation**

We strongly recommend familiarizing yourself with the course materials beforehand. Please take the time to watch the video recordings available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTXwDWOjJ0Xeisir2sL3RxkC1RHpMmFbG)/[Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/showcase/2022-us-gpu-short-course) and work on the exercises provided in Jupyter Notebooks. Detailed instructions can be found in the [README](https://github.com/Lab4US/gpu-short-course#readme) file of the course. This preparation will help you get a head start and make the most out of the course.

**2. Course Overview**

During the course, we will briefly refresh the fundamentals of GPU programming, then dive into specific applications of CUDA in processing ultrasonic signals. Our aim is to equip you with practical knowledge and hands-on skills to excel in this domain.

If you have any doubts or questions before or during the course, please don't hesitate to reach out to us via email. We are here to support you throughout the learning journey and want to ensure that you have a productive and enjoyable experience.

**3. New/modified materials**
<!-- TODO: -->
- Updated slides of ["CUDA Refresher" (PDF)](slides/ius-2024/IUS-2024-US-GPU-CUDA-refresher.pdf).

- `demos/xxx` - demos/examples/use-cases ...


_We look forward to meeting ALL of you at the course!_

<hr/>

*This short-course is a part of the [Lab4US.eu](https://lab4us.eu) initiative*
[![Lab4US](figs/Lab4US-banner-EN-800.png)](https://lab4us.eu)

Commit message:

Added information about CUDA by example presentation.

2024-IUS-US-GPU.md, after:

# Short-course US-GPU @ IUS-2024 / UFFC-JS-2024 (22 SEP 2024)

This is a readme for the "GPU-based Ultrasound Signal Processing" short-course to be presented @ the [IUS-2024](https://2024.ieee-uffc-js.org/tutorials-and-short-courses)

We are excited to have you join us for the upcoming IUS-2024 GPU short course (BTW: this year it is a join conference called UFFC-JS-2024). 
Before we begin, we wanted to provide you with some essential information and recommendations to ensure a smooth and enriching learning experience.

**1. Pre-course Preparation**

We strongly recommend familiarizing yourself with the course materials beforehand. Please take the time to watch the video recordings available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTXwDWOjJ0Xeisir2sL3RxkC1RHpMmFbG)/[Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/showcase/2022-us-gpu-short-course) and work on the exercises provided in Jupyter Notebooks. Detailed instructions can be found in the [README](https://github.com/Lab4US/gpu-short-course#readme) file of the course. This preparation will help you get a head start and make the most out of the course.

**2. Course Overview**

During the course, we will briefly refresh the fundamentals of GPU programming, then dive into specific applications of CUDA in processing ultrasonic signals. Our aim is to equip you with practical knowledge and hands-on skills to excel in this domain.

If you have any doubts or questions before or during the course, please don't hesitate to reach out to us via email. We are here to support you throughout the learning journey and want to ensure that you have a productive and enjoyable experience.

**3. New/modified materials**
<!-- TODO: -->
- Updated slides of ["CUDA Refresher" (PDF)](slides/ius-2024/IUS-2024-US-GPU-CUDA-refresher.pdf).
- Updated slides of ["CUDA by example, delay and sum"](slides/ius-2023/cuda_by_example_delay_and_sum.pdf) **Will be updated soon.**

_We look forward to meeting ALL of you at the course!_

<hr/>

*This short-course is a part of the [Lab4US.eu](https://lab4us.eu) initiative*
[![Lab4US](figs/Lab4US-banner-EN-800.png)](https://lab4us.eu)
